Pau Martin p.martin@upc.edu, later someone else

### Evaluation
* Excercises (60%) + Work project(25% (other ideas welcome)) + Final Exam (15%)

The Questions on the final test are on atenea, will ask 3 of them. If you know all of them, you're good

Work project includes a written report, and a presentation

This part of the course, following the book called "*Arrowsmith. Plaue: An Introduction to dynamical systems*"
Wanna go further? "*Hasselblatt, Katok: Introduction to the modern theory of dynamical systems*" $\leftarrow$ the bible
Another book "*Guckenheimer, Holmes: Nonlinear oscillators, dynamical systems and bifurcations of vector fields*"
Another.. "*Devaury, *"

Notes on O.D.E. in catalan....
Notes on dynamical systems in caralan....

50 + 50 minutes

The columns with crosses are the excercises i have to do. Have to send them in before christmas

### Contents: Dynamical systems
* Tools to analyse and **distinguish** dynamical systems


# Chapter 1
*Discrete and continuous dynamical systems*

Discrete: $M$; set of states and $x_k\rightarrow_k+1=f(x_k)$ 
Continuous dynamical systems: $\dot{x}=X(x), \dot{x} \text{ is } C_f(x)\in \mathbb{R}$ 

### $C^r$ functions on $\mathbb{R}^n$
Let $U \subset \mathbb{R}^n$ be an open set. 
* $g:U \subset \mathbb{R}^n\rightarrow\mathbb{R}$ is of class $C^{n},r\geq0$
* g is r-fold continously differentiable.
* g is $C^{0}$ if it is continuous
* $G:U\subset \mathbb{R}^{n}\rightarrow \mathbb{R}^{n}$ is $C^r$ if {g_i} is $C^{r}, i=1, ..., n.$
* G is smooth or $C^\infty$ if it is $C^{r}\quad\forall\quad r$
* G is differentioavel if it is $C^{r}$ for some $1<=r<=\infty$ .
* G is $C^{0}$ if it is cont.
**Def** $G:U\subset \mathbb{R}^{n}\rightarrow V\subset \mathbb{R}^{n}$ is a diffeomorphism id G is a bijection, $C^r$, $G^-1$ is $C^r$. $G$ is a dif

#PHOTO


## Differentiable manifolds
A diff. manifold is a topological space with a differenciable structure (we can do diff calculus)

let $M$ be a (second countable and Howsdorff) topological space. A chart on $M$ is a pair $(U(M?),h)$, $U(M?)c \mathbb{R}^{n}$ , open set. $h: WcM\rightarrow U$ is a homeomorphism.

Note: We can then define $C^k$ functions from $WcM$ to $W$.
$f:WcM\rightarrow W$         h$\rightarrow$  
#PHOTO of chart

A $C^k$-atlas on $M$ is a family $(U_{\alpha},h_{\alpha })$ of charts s.t. $M=U_{alpha}H^{-1}(U_{\alpha })$ and $H_\alpha....$ #PHOTO 
#PHOTO_of_chart


Then $f:M\rightarrow M$ is a $C^r$-map $(r\leq K)$ if for any twi charts $(U_{\alpha},h_{\alpha })$ SAME PHOTO


## Examples 
1. $x^{2}+y^{2}=1$ 
#Figure_of_circle
